All right.
So let's do a couple of exercises here using the and different trial.
Remember that many many times in fact most times you will have to use these two rules together and just
remind you we have a mnemonic for the rule and it is D.
And the way to remember that is if you're summing two things what you're doing is adding them all right.
So D D stands for.
Add different derivatives in other words if you're adding two things and you want to get the derivative
of the whole thing.
You get the derivative of the first plus the derivative of the second.
And remember that we use the same mnemonic for a difference or in other words for subtraction.
Now for subtraction instead of add all derivatives you subtract all derivatives.
So in other words what you do is you keep the sign in the middle.
OK.
So we have this example here f of x equals x to the fourth minus x cubed plus x squared minus X plus
1.
And I'll let you pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so let's find the derivative of this and see if you got it right.
All right.
So for all of these we're just going to use the power rule.
So we're going to bring down our dictator and we're going to substitute by a less powerful leader.
All right so derivative of vector The fourth is for x cubed.
All right.
And then remember these two are subtracting.
So we keep the negative derivative of the second is breaking down or 3 x and subtract one from the exponent.
All right.
And then we keep the sign plus derivative of the next bringing down a dictator to X and subtract 1 from
the exponent which becomes just 1.
So Escher's X minus derivative of x we bring down a dictator which is 1 and we subtract one from the
exponents.
So that becomes X to the 1 minus 1 x 2 0.
And actually I'll write this one down because this derivative can be confusing to some people.
So we bring down a dictator which was one X and one minus one.
All right.
And the one is multiplying the X..
And then we keep the sign Plus a derivative of a constant is zero.
All right.
And let's go ahead and simplify.
So that's 4 x cubed.
Mine is 3 x squared.
Plus to x.
So this one here actually became what.
Well we have access to the one to my next one that's next to the 0 x to the 0 is just one.
So we have in essence 1 times 1 which is 1 minus 1 and then the plus 0 we did not do anything with that
because it doesn't change a thing.
All right.
So we just take it out and this is our final answer.
See how easy it is.
All you need to do is to get the derivative of each individual function and keep the sign in between
them.
That's what the mnemonic says.
You add different derivatives and you subtract different derivatives.
Right.
When I say different derivatives I mean each individual one derivative of x to the fourth derivative
of execute derivative of x squared etc. etc..
And again you just keep the sign in between them the same.
That's it.
All right.
So here we have another example find f prime of X if X equals negative 3 x squared minus X to the negative
on plus 5.
I'll let you pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so what is this.
Let's find the derivative.
Like I said you're just going to get the derivative of each individual function and you're going to
keep the sign right.
So let's get the derivative of this one.
So we have a constant multiple negative three.
We put it outside a derivative of x squared is we bring down a dictator which is our two x and the exponent
becomes a 1.
We don't market but market in this case.
So we can keep track of it and then we'll take it out.
All right.
So we have this now.
So we do minus.
Right.
We're just keeping this sign the same and we get the derivative of this guy.
So again what we do here is we use the power rule so this negative one comes down multiplying.
And remember we have this negative from outside and then the negative from the negative one.
These are two different negatives.
That's important.
You can say like oh we have a negative here so I'll just put a one.
No.
If you bring down a negative one your market is negative one.
In addition to the negative that you already had.
OK.
So keeping up with the power all we have are x.
We subtract one from the exponent so negative one minus one.
If you own daughter and you spent one more now you owe too.
So that's negative too.
And then the derivative of a constant is zero.
So we do.
Plus zero.
And let's go ahead and simplify negative three times two is negative six because it's a negative times
a positive.
The answer is negative six x.
And then for the X to the one we're just going to leave it as X..
It's the same thing.
All right.
Now what happens here.
Here you have a negative times a negative.
Right.
So when you have a minus and then whatever your mind is saying is a minus as well.
Remember the whole thing becomes positive negative times a negative becomes positive this negative too
and the exponent is something completely different.
Right.
That is for the max.
This xponent what I'm talking about is the value of this as a whole is negative because this guy makes
it negative.
But then when you have minus times minus it becomes positive.
All right.
So here we do plus and then we have the one.
So we're not going to market because again it's just the one and we have X to the negative to plus zero
we don't need to push it because it doesn't change a thing.
All right.
Let's go ahead and finally simplify this so we have negative six sex.
And remember that we don't like negative exponents.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take this guy and bring it to the bottom with a fliped exponent.
So we do plus one over x to the second power.
So now the exponent is positive.
Remember that you always flip it when you bring it down or you bring it up.
And this would be our final answer.
So maybe this problem this negative temps negative confused you maybe didn't simplify it all the way
until the end.
Just make sure that you study this and you get what is it that we did.
And again remember very important if you have a negative times a negative the whole thing becomes a
positive.
So yes we say that we keep the sign when we do this some are differential.
That's what we did.
We actually took this sign and brought it down here.
However this expression we had a negative.
So that's where we ended up multiplying the negative times a negative.
And that's why it became a positive.
All right.
So for a last exercise finds prime of X if X equals this 3 x squared plus 5 x squared minus 5 x cubed
plus 20 x plus three alleged pause and give it a shot.
All right.
So let's go ahead and find this derivative.
However there is something interesting about this function.
Have you caught it yet.
Let's see.
So we have three x squared and we have five x squared.
So these two have the same base and exponents x squared right x to the two.
That means that we can actually simplify these two and put them together.
We can do that with any other term here because this is executable.
This is X and this is three.
So the only ones that have x squared are these two.
So that means that you can actually put them together like this.
You add the three and the five.
So that gives you eight x squared
and that's it.
We have simplified them.
So we keep the x squared right.
That doesn't change because we're adding and then we do three plus five.
That gives us 8 x squared.
All right and now we'll just rewrite the rest of our function.
So 5 x cubed
plus 20 x
plus three.
Now one thing you'll probably never get a function where you actually have to simplify before you do
the derivative.
Now when you're finding derivatives there are going to be a lot of times where you need to simplify
like this.
When you getting an answer here I gave you the simplification at the beginning but typically you're
not going to see that again.
Only when you're finishing up a derivative is where you're going to have to simplify terms like this.
So if they have the same base and the same exponents only then you can add the constant multiples at
the beginning.
In this case three and five that gives is eight.
And then you keep this x squared right.
Now if you were wondering what if I didn't simplify and I got the derivative it would have given you
the same answer but it's always better to simplify.
If you see something like this.
All right.
So let's go ahead and find the derivative of this function.
All right so the derivative of this we have constant multiple We have an eight times bring down a dictator
to x to the to minus one substituting by a less powerful leader.
And we do minus.
So we keep the sign right and then we have again constant multiple.
We bring down a dictator that's three x.
Subtract one from the exponents plus So we keep the sign again.
Remember we always keep the sign in between the terms and just get the different derivatives.
All right.
So constant multiple We have a 20 multiplying at the beginning and then we bring down our dictator which
in this case is just one x to the one minus one.
So we substitute a less powerful leader here.
Remember that if it's X then the exponent is implied to be 1.
So that's where we subtract that 1 minus 1.
And then the derivative of this 3 is 0.
So we do plus 0.
And let's go ahead and simplify.
8 times 2 is 16
x to the two minus one just becomes X to the 1 or just X minus 5 times 3 is 15
and then x to the three minus one is X to the two
plus 20 times one is 20
and then times x to the 1 minus 1.
So remember X to the one of minus one is just x to the zero and anything to the zero power is 1.
So that's going to give us 20 times 1 which is just 20.
So we'll just leave it like that and then play zero.
We take that out because it doesn't change anything.
And we have our final answer.
There it is.
All right.
So we just did all these problems with our mnemonic a DD says add the different derivatives.
That's what we do here we add and subtract the different derivatives by keeping the sign in between
them.
That's pretty much it for the sum and differential.
I'll see you in the next tutorial.
I remember practice.
Do your homework.
Just do it.